Hi, I'm Michael D'Andrea.
Welcome to this course on using AI with EHR data.
I'm excited to be your guide through this course.
I'm currently a principle of data scientist at Genentech,
a part of the Roche group.
At Genentech, I'm working on using AI to
support our clinical trials for the pharma development division.
We're using a wide variety of data sources, including EHR data,
to better inform questions around identifying and reducing risks to patients,
and creating safer, more effective, faster clinical trials.
Before Genentech and Roche,
I was on the AI team at McKesson's Change Healthcare.
Some of you might know that McKesson is one of
the largest drug distributors in the US and also creates medical devices as well,
but they also had a large IT division that did a lot of work with EHR data.
In fact, Change Healthcare is one of the largest processors of EHR data in the US,
with almost 25 percent of data going through their systems.
I would regularly work with EHR datasets
with hundreds of millions of rows of claims data,
and even up to billions of rows.
This experience made me learn how to manage larger datasets and work with tools like
TensorFlow and big data tools such as
Spark or big data SQL engines like Athena and BigTable.
Lastly, I just want to introduce my educational background.
I have two master's degrees,
an MBA from Cornell,
and a master's in computing and education from Colombia.
I also have completed three Udacity Nanodegree programs.
Through my education and work experiences,
I've learned to appreciate the challenges of
healthcare EHR data and also the great opportunities and impact.
I really hope that this course can save you a lot of time and
headaches with understanding how to use AI in this field.
There is so much opportunity to use AI in healthcare and I hope
that this provides you with the foundation to learn and grow in this field.
So one of the reasons that I was excited to join Genentech
was their focus on creating groundbreaking drugs and treatments for cancer.
It's really great to be a part of an organization
that's working to create cures and treatments,
especially since I have family who have personally struggled with this.
Also, now with the COVID-19 pandemic,
there's greater urgency and need for
diverse talent around the world to come together for better diagnostics,
treatments, and so many other things to save lives.
I will share some links in this course,
but there are lots of opportunities to use
EHR data and AI to make an impact against COVID-19.
Also, EHR data is in many ways the foundation for
really leveraging the global data on patients around the world.
Next, I want to speak to the impact that AI can bring to
creating better treatments and diagnostics with less bias.
My company and many others are focused on how to better incorporate
demographic analysis into both selection of attributes and datasets,
and also the analysis of the predictions from AI models.
Reducing bias is something that can affect us all by making
treatments that are more representative of different demographic groups.
I also want to reiterate what others in the field have
mentioned of AI's ability to reduce costs,
improve access to healthcare.
These cases are coming up in a variety of innovative ways,
but I want to mention the fundamental data with patient visits,
diagnoses, procedures, medications, and
lab results that are still fundamental parts to many of these innovative methods.
Last thing I want to say,
that you should think of why you're taking
this course and what motivates you to take this course.
I think that helps to keep things in perspective when things are
tough and you face the inevitable bumps on the road.
Are you fighting to find treatments to a disease that is relevant to a family,
or friend, or yourself?
Are you trying to provide greater access to quality healthcare in your part of the world,
where some treatments or diagnostics are not available?
There are so many reasons that can light a fire to inspire you to
use this course to reach your goals to change healthcare for the better.